What is kubernetes?
Kubernetes is a portable, extensible, open-source platform for managing workloads.
It is a managed, production-ready environment for deploying containerized applications.
It is a container orchestrator
Kubernetes is a system for automating deployment, scheduling and scaling (container instances) of containerized applications

Application containerization - OS level virtualization to deploy and run distributed application.
Multiple isolated applications or services run on a single host and access the same OS krnel

How it works? - include the runtime components (image)

Container engine - deploying images on host

The oldest way was applications on host (entangling with host OS and infrastructure)

The older way(VMs) was heavyweight, non-portable and relies on OS package manager

The new way (containers) is small, fast and portable across clouds and OS distributions.

Benefits
1. Efficiency for memory, CPU and storage.
2. Portability.
Drawbacks
1.Lack of isolation from core OS
2. No protection or lack of security

Kubernetes vs Docker (Swarm)
Kubernetes is a container orchestration solution.
Orchestration - execution of a defined workflow

Kubernetes, Docker Swarm, Mesos, Titus

Kubernetes provides a container-centric management environment
Platform as a Service(PaaS) - AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Microsoft Azure, Heroku


Features provided (container level) - deployment, scaling, load balancing, logging, monitoring
Supported workloads - stateless, stateful, data-processing
(CI/CD) Continuous Integration, Delivery and Deployment
Features not provided (application lvel) - middleware, data processing frameworks, databases, caches, cluster storage systems

Kubernetes means pilot, governor    K8s

Master components - control plane, making global decisions, detect and respond to cluster events
1. kube-apiserver - front-end for control plane
2. etcd - key value store for all cluster data
3. kube-scheduler - watches newly created pods and selects a node for them to run on
4. kube-controller-manager - runs controllers. controllers are compiled together and run as a single process
	Types of controllers include -
		i) Node controller
		ii) Replication controller
		iii) Endpoints controller
		iv) Service account & token controllers
5. cloud-controller-manager - runs controllers that interact with underlying cloud provider

containers -> pods -> nodes -> cluster -> master components

Pods - container for containers. Inside a pod, containers share same resources and local network. They can communicate but they still maintain isolation. At a time, replicas of your pod should be running to allow load balancing, failure resistance

Node - Smallest unit of computing hardware. Simply viewing each machine as a set of CPU and RAM resources
Node COmponents - 
1. kubelet - makes sure that containers run inside a pod
2. kube-proxy - enables k8s service abstraction by maintaining network rules and connection forwarding
3. Container Runtime

Cluster - nodes pool their resources together to make a big powerful machine. It intelligently distributes work to individual nodes

Persistent - plugging cloud drives or external hard disk to the cluster to store data permanently

1. Install Google Cloud SDk
2. Kubernetes cmd - gcloud components install kubectl
3. Install Docker
4. Install git (git-scm.com)

1. git clone <url>
2. cd <dir>
3. gcloud auth configure-docker (use once only)
4. docker build -t name:tag
docker build -t gcr.io/cloudshell-k8stest2-223806/hello-app:v1 .

gcr means google container registry 

5. docker images
























































